CASMPET-7556: Steps to create HSM groups for iSCSI SBPS selective (#6082)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/iscsi_sbps/HSM_groups_iscsi.md

> # Selective Node Personalization

Reviewer: Change it to "Selective Worker Node Personalization"

> `iscsi_worker` is the HSM group name needs to be created for iSCSI SBPS selective node personalization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `iscsi_worker` HSM group name needs to be created for iSCSI SBPS selective node personalization.
```

> The `iscsi_worker` is the HSM group name needs to be created for iSCSI SBPS selective node personalization.

Reviewer: Change it to "selective worker node personalization"

Author: Will change to "Selective Worker Node Personalization for iSCSI SBPS"

* [Steps to create HSM group](#steps-to-create-hsm-group)
* [CFS configuration and component update](#cfs-configuration-and-component-update)

## Steps to create HSM group

Example:

```text

> ncn-m001:~ # cray hsm groups create --label iscsi_worker --description "iscsi node personalization" --members-ids x3000c0s5b0n0

Reviewer: Separate cmd Vs std output.

Author: Can we use 'bash' instead of 'text' and have command and output together ?

Author: @dborman-hpe, What do you suggest here?

Reviewer 2: Only use `bash` when quoting just bash commands.  When quoting terminal output, use `text`.  So to separate them, have one `bash` that only has the command to be run (no shell prompt!), and then a separate `text` with the output from the command.  I'd also say only use `bash` when you want the user to cut-n-paste the command with no changes.

Author: ok Thanks for the info @dborman-hpe.

[[results]]
URI = "/hsm/v2/groups/iscsi_worker"
```

HSM group `iscsi_worker` created with xname `x3000c0s5b0n0` added. Adding one more xname of worker node is as below:

```text

> ncn-m001:~ # cray hsm groups members create --id x3000c0s18b0n0 iscsi_worker

Reviewer: Separate cmd Vs std output.

[[results]]
URI = "/hsm/v2/groups/iscsi_worker/members/x3000c0s18b0n0"
```

The group members of `iscsi_worker` can be listed as below:

```text

> ncn-m001:~ # cray hsm groups members list iscsi_worker

Reviewer: Separate cmd Vs std output.

Reviewer 2: Also remove the command prompt
```suggestion
cray hsm groups members list iscsi_worker
```

ids = [ "x3000c0s5b0n0", "x3000c0s18b0n0",]
```

## CFS configuration and component update

> In scenario's like an upgraded system where HSM groups are not created, then below steps can be followed for selective node personalization post HSM groups creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In scenarios such as an upgraded system where HSM groups were not created, then the following steps can be used for selective node personalization post HSM groups creation.
```

> In scenarios such as an upgraded system where HSM groups were not created, then the following steps can be used for selective node personalization post HSM groups creation.

Reviewer: Change it to "selective worker node personalization"

Example:

> ```text

Reviewer: Separate all the cmd Vs std output.

ncn-m001:~ # XNAME=$( ssh ncn-m001 cat /etc/cray/xname )
ncn-m001:~ # echo $XNAME
x3000c0s1b0n0
ncn-m001:~ # CONFIG=$( cray cfs components describe $XNAME --format json | jq -r '.desiredConfig' )
ncn-m001:~ # echo $CONFIG
management-main-1874509.1
ncn-m001:~ # craycfs configurations describe $CONFIG --format json | jq -r '. | del(.name) | del(.lastUpdated)' > ${CONFIG}.json

> ncn-m001:~ # cat management-main-1874509.1.json

Reviewer: Separate the cmd Vs std output.

{
  "layers": [
    {
      "cloneUrl": "https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/vcs/cray/csm-config-management.git",
      "commit": "67098595b52d0739382611ef6fe15a918978910d",
      "name": "csm-sbps_iscsi_targets-1.6.1-rc.7",
      "playbook": "config_sbps_iscsi_targets.yml"
    }
  ]
}

> ncn-m001:~ # cray cfs configurations update --file ${CONFIG}.json ${CONFIG}

Reviewer: Separate the cmd Vs std output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cray cfs configurations update --file ${CONFIG}.json ${CONFIG}
```

lastUpdated = "2025-05-27T11:17:51Z"
name = "management-main-1874509.1"
[[layers]]
cloneUrl = "https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/vcs/cray/csm-config-management.git"
commit = "67098595b52d0739382611ef6fe15a918978910d"
name = "csm-sbps_iscsi_targets-1.6.1-rc.7"
playbook = "config_sbps_iscsi_targets.yml"

> ncn-m001:~ # cray cfs components update $XNAME --state []

Reviewer: Separate the cmd Vs std output.

desiredConfig = "management-main-1874509.1"
enabled = true
errorCount = 0
id = "x3000c0s1b0n0"
state = []

[tags]

> ncn-m001:~ # cray cfs components describe $XNAME

Reviewer: Separate the cmd Vs std output.

configurationStatus = "pending"
desiredConfig = "management-main-1874509.1"
enabled = true
errorCount = 0
id = "x3000c0s1b0n0"
state = []

[tags]

......

> ncn-m001:~ # cray cfs components describe $XNAME

Reviewer: Separate the cmd Vs std output.

configurationStatus = "configured"
desiredConfig = "management-main-1874509.1"
enabled = true
errorCount = 0
id = "x3000c0s1b0n0"
[[state]]
cloneUrl = "https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/vcs/cray/csm-config-management.git"
commit = "67098595b52d0739382611ef6fe15a918978910d_skipped"
lastUpdated = "2025-05-27T11:20:52Z"
playbook = "config_sbps_iscsi_targets.yml"
sessionName = "batcher-66eee897-aa2a-4d92-9a2c-565e9bde3665"

[tags]

> ncn-m001:~ # kubectl get pods --no-headers -o custom-columns=":metadata.name" -n services -l cfsession=batcher-66eee897-aa2a-4d92-9a2c-565e9bde3665

Reviewer: Separate the cmd Vs std output.

# Selective Worker Node Personalization for iSCSI SBPS

The `iscsi_worker` is the HSM group name needs to be created for iSCSI SBPS selective worker node personalization.

* [Steps to create HSM group](#steps-to-create-hsm-group)
* [CFS configuration and component update](#cfs-configuration-and-component-update)

## Steps to create HSM group

```bash

> ncn-m001:~ # cray hsm groups create --label iscsi_worker --description "iscsi node personalization" --members-ids x3000c0s5b0n0

Reviewer 2: When showing a bash command, don't include the prompt
```suggestion
cray hsm groups create --label iscsi_worker --description "iscsi node personalization" --members-ids x3000c0s5b0n0
```

```

Example output:

```text
[[results]]
URI = "/hsm/v2/groups/iscsi_worker"
```

HSM group `iscsi_worker` created with xname `x3000c0s5b0n0` added. Adding one more xname of worker node is as below:

```bash
cray hsm groups members create --id x3000c0s18b0n0 iscsi_worker

> [[results]]

Reviewer 2: This `results` line should be move down below as the first line of the Example output

```

Example output:

```text
URI = "/hsm/v2/groups/iscsi_worker/members/x3000c0s18b0n0"
```

The group members of `iscsi_worker` can be listed as below:

```bash
ncn-m001:~ # cray hsm groups members list iscsi_worker
```

Example output:

```text
ids = [ "x3000c0s5b0n0", "x3000c0s18b0n0",]
```

## CFS configuration and component update

In scenarios such as an upgraded system where HSM groups were not created, then the following steps can be used for selective worker node personalization post HSM groups creation.

Example:

```bash
ncn-m001:~ # XNAME=$( ssh ncn-m001 cat /etc/cray/xname )
ncn-m001:~ # CONFIG=$( cray cfs components describe $XNAME --format json | jq -r '.desiredConfig' )

> ncn-m001:~ # cray cfs configurations describe $CONFIG --format json | jq -r '. | del(.name) | del(.lastUpdated)' > ${CONFIG}.json

Reviewer 2: Remove the command prompts
```suggestion
XNAME=$( ssh ncn-m001 cat /etc/cray/xname )
CONFIG=$( cray cfs components describe $XNAME --format json | jq -r '.desiredConfig' )
cray cfs configurations describe $CONFIG --format json | jq -r '. | del(.name) | del(.lastUpdated)' > ${CONFIG}.json
```
